http://theconversation.com/can-parks-help-cities-fight-crime-118322
Can parks help cities fight crime?
June 26, 2019 3.09am AEST
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The relationship between parks and crime remains the subject of debate.
Some scholars say parks and other urban green spaces prevent violence. When vacant lots and deteriorating urban spaces are transformed into more appealing and useful places for residents, violence and crime typically decline in the immediate vicinity.
	- vacant
		> 空的 |(of a place) not occupied; empty.| 40 per cent of the offices are still vacant
		> 空缺的 |(of a position or employment) not filled.| the President resigned and the post was left vacant
		> 空洞的 |Having or showing no intelligence or interest.| a vacant stare
	- lot
		> 大量 |A large number or amount; a great deal.| there are a lot of actors in the cast
		> 相當地/非常 |A great deal; much.| he played tennis a lot last year
		> 一批/一攤 |A particular group or set of people or things.| it's just one lot of rich people stealing from another
		> 分 |Divide (items) into lots for sale at an auction.| the contents have already been lotted up, and the auction takes place on Monday’
		> 拍賣品 |An item or set of items for sale at an auction.| nineteen lots failed to sell
		> 籤 |The making of a decision by random selection, especially by a method involving the choice of one from a number of pieces of folded paper, one of which has a concealed mark.| officers were elected rather than selected by lot
		> 命運/命數 |A person's luck, situation, or destiny in life.| schemes to improve the lot of the disadvantaged
		> 一塊地 |A plot of land assigned for sale or for a particular use.| a vacant lot
		> 停車場 |parking lot|
In a study of public housing developments in Chicago, researchers found 52% fewer crimes reported near buildings surrounded by trees and other vegetation. In New York City, neighborhoods with higher investment in public green space see an average of 213 fewer felonies per year.
	- felony 重罪 == A crime regarded in the US and many other judicial systems as more serious than a misdemeanour.
Similar relationships between green space and crime have been observed in Baltimore, Chicago, Philadelphia and Portland, as well as in cities outside the U.S.
	- Portland 波特蘭，是一座位於美國西北部的城市
In many cities, however, people see parks as dangerous – magnets for illicit activities like drug dealing and places for criminals to access potential victims who, while engaged in recreation, may be less vigilant about their belongings and personal safety.
	- vigilant 警戒的 == Keeping careful watch for possible danger or difficulties.
Research supports this idea, too. One 2015 study of multiple U.S. cities found that property crime rates are two to four times higher in neighborhoods near parks. Violent crimes rates were up to 11 times worse.
So do parks make cities safer or more dangerous? The short answer is: It depends on the park.

Green space leads to lower crime

One reason that evidence on the relationship between parks and crime is so mixed is that most studies on this subject have focused on a single city or location.
In an effort to identify nationwide trends, our team of researchers at Clemson and North Carolina State universities in 2017 began gathering information on crime, green space and parks in the 300 largest cities in the United States.
Unlike many studies that use the terms “parks” and “green space” interchangeably, our analysis distinguished between these two urban environments.
Green space was measured by the amount of grass, plants, tree canopy cover and other greenery on the landscape. We defined urban parks as designated open spaces managed by a public agency – a subset of green space.
	- greenery 綠色植物 == Green foliage, growing plants, or vegetation.
To distinguish the impact of green spaces from social factors typically linked to crime – population density, income, education, diversity and social disadvantage – we controlled for those factors when evaluating crime data.
We learned that more green space was associated with lower risk of crime across neighborhoods in all 300 cities we studied.
Burglaries, larceny, auto theft and other property crimes occur less often in greener neighborhoods in every city in our sample. Violent crimes like murder, assault and armed robbery were also less common in greener neighborhoods in nearly all the cities we studied.
	- burglary 破門竊盜
	- auto theft 竊車 == The theft of a motor vehicle
Only three cities in our sample did not benefit from green space. In Chicago, Detroit and Newark – all places with notoriously high and stubborn crime rates – more green space was associated with higher levels of violent crime.
Scholars have identified several reasons why the presence of green space may lead to lower crime.
Contact with nature reduces precursors to crime like stress and aggression, making people feel happier and less inclined to engage in criminal acts. By giving people a place to participate in outdoor activities together, parks also promote positive social interactions and neighborly connections within diverse urban communities.
And when people gather in parks and other green spaces, it puts more “eyes on the streets,” exposing criminals to constant community surveillance.
Finally, there’s some evidence that more green space makes nearby areas safer simply by pushing crime into nearby neighborhoods – not outright eliminating it.

Parks: Crime hot spots or safe havens?

In the second step of our study, we narrowed the focus of our analysis to just urban parks. The results were less positive.
Examining four cities in different U.S. regions – Austin, Philadelphia, Phoenix and San Francisco – we found that violent crime was 28% to 64% higher in neighborhoods adjacent to parks than in neighborhoods located a mile from the same parks. Property crime was 38% to 63% higher in areas close to parks.
The only exception was Phoenix, where proximity to parks had no impact on property crime.
Zooming out from our four-city sample, we found evidence that some parks actually do a good job of deterring crime. Design and maintenance are critical if parks are to reduce, rather than attract, crime.
New York’s Bryant Park, in Midtown Manhattan, was once a notorious haven for criminal activity – a place office workers avoided walking through after dark. In 1985 Bryant Park was closed for a massive renovation effort that included the addition of activities and events there. When it reopened in 1992, police reported a 92% decrease in local crime.
In Los Angeles, a citywide Summer Night Lights program started in 2007 to promote positive activities in parks after dark is credited with reducing crime in nearby neighborhoods by 40% over three years.
And construction of a new elevated trail in Chicago seems to have made the neighborhoods it runs through safer. Between 2011 and 2015, areas on The 606 trail saw 2.8 times less violent crime and 1.6 times less property crime than comparable low-income Chicago neighborhoods over the same period.
Parks that are designed for safety, heavily programmed on an ongoing basis and well maintained tend to attract residents whose presence serves as a crime deterrent.
That means not just amenities like ball fields and cultural facilities but also the active involvement of the local community and sources of sustainable, ongoing funding. When parks are allowed to deteriorate, the decaying infrastructure and bad reputation of parks can turn them into magnets for crime.
Critically, both program and landscape design must also reflect the broader community in which a park sits, creating public spaces where everyone from office workers to local teens can appreciate and enjoy the entire range of social, economic and health benefits that parks offer.
More legitimate park users means increased monitoring and sense of ownership over a public space. This process known as “territorial reinforcement” is a key tenet of crime prevention through environmental design.
	- tenet 信條/主義/原則 == A principle or belief, especially one of the main principles of a religion or philosophy.
Urban parks and green space enhance the well-being of city residents, promoting physical activity, mental health and a sense of community.
	- well-being 幸福/安康 == the state of feeling healthy and happy
Whether they also reduce crime depends on the park, city, the neighborhood and, critically, how well an urban green space is managed.