[Listened Key Sentence]
1. A major chief in the approach to physical anthropology occur with discovery of genetic principles.
2. Garegag J. Mando had formulated the first law of heredity.
3. He has laid the foundation of science of genetics.
4. Genes are the unit with insax cells.
5. The sperm egg transmitted specific hereditary traits from one generation to the next.
6. Characteristics are thought to be discarded in the hereditary process.
7. Lay type are genetically determined.
8. We can trace early migration patterns.

[Real Key Sentence]
1. A major shift in the approach to physical anthropology occurred with the discovery of genetic principles. 因為發現了基因遺傳原理，使得體質人類學的研究產生了重大轉變
2. Gregor J. Mendel had formulated the first laws of heredity. 葛瑞格。Ｊ。孟德爾提出最早的遺傳定律
3. He had laid the foundation of the science of genetics. 他為遺傳學這學科奠定了基礎
4. Genes are the units within sex cells. 基因是性細胞中一組一組的單位
5. The sperm and egg transmit specific hereditary traits from one generation to the next. 精子和卵子將特定的遺傳特徵從一代傳到下一代
6. Characteristics are thought to be discarded in the hereditary process. 特徵被認為在遺傳過程中受到摒棄
7. Blood types are genetically determined. 血型由遺傳決定
8. We can trace early migration patterns. 我們可以追溯出早期的移民模式

[Listened Article]
A major shift in the approach to physical anthropology occurred at the beginning of 20th century with discovery of genetic principles, and the ABO blood groups. Genetics were actually rediscovered. In 1865, an Austrian monk, Gregor J. Mendel had formulated the first laws of heredity and laid the foundation of science of genetics. His findings were almost entirely ignored at the time. In 1800, three other European butterness arrived to the same conclusion that Mendel had published 35 years earlier. And in researching literature on the subject, they found his work.
Genes are units within sex cells, such as sperm adn egg that transmit specific hereditary trait from one generation to the next. The study of hereditary trait has become essential to anthropologists in seeking to understand human variations and differences between races. Genetics has modified the theory of progress of evolution somewhat, because it has been shown experiments that may be genetic reversals. That is reversion back to trace characteristics thought to be discarded in the hereditary process. 
Early in the 20th century, another Austrian, a phision named Carlo Nam Styner, discovered the blood groups or types, known as O, A, B, and AB. This led anthropologists to investigate blood differences among races. They have noticed that certain races and subraces have particular distribution of one or another blood type. This enabled scientists to categorize races, and since blood type are genetically determined, to trace early migration patterns. 

[Real Article]
A major shift in the approach to physical anthropology occurred at the beginning of the 20th century with the discovery of genetic principles and of the ABO blood groups. Genetics was actually rediscovered. In 1865 an Austrian monk, Gregor J. Mendel, had formulated the first laws of heredity and laid the foundation of the science of genetics. His findings were almost entirely ignored at the time. In 1900 three other European botanists arrived at the same conclusions that Mendel had published 35 years earlier, and in researching the literature on the subject they found his work.

Genes are the units within sex cells such as the sperm and egg that transmit specific hereditary traits from one generation to the next. The study of inherited traits had become essential to anthropologists in seeking to understand human variations and differences between races. Genetics has modified the theory of progressive evolution somewhat, because it had been shown by experiment that there may be genetic reversal - that is, reversions back to traits and characteristics thought to be discarded in the hereditary process.

Early in the 20th century another Austrian, a physician named Karl Landsteiner, discovered the blood groups, or types, known as O, A, B, AB. this led anthropologists to investigate blood differences among the races. They have noted that  certain races and subraces have particular distributions of one or another blood type. This had enabled scientists to categorize the races and, since blood types are genetically determined, to trace early migration patterns.

[Review]
- shift	/ʃɪft/
- chief /tʃiːf/
- heredity /hɪˈrɛdɪti/ --> hereditary /hɪˈrɛdɪt(ə)ri/
- Gregor J. Mendel 孟德爾，奧地利遺傳學家，遺傳學的奠基人
+ lay the foundation for/of 打下基礎 == to produce the basic ideas or structures from which something much larger develops
	> The two leaders have laid the foundations of a new era in cooperation between their countries.
	> He had laid the foundation of the science of genetics.
+ sperm (n)精液 = semen, 精子 = spermatozoon
+ egg (n)卵子 = ovum, 蛋, 人/傢伙 (v)煽動
- sex cells == The sperm and egg of living things
- "at" "the" beginning of "the" 20th century
- with the discovery [of genetic principles] and [of the ABO blood groups]
- "at" the time
- botanist /ˈbɒt(ə)nɪst/ == An expert in or student of the scientific study of plants.
- inherited		/ɪnˈhɛrɪtɪd/
- hereditary	/hɪˈrɛdɪt(ə)ri/
+ physician	/fɪˈzɪʃ(ə)n/ 醫生 == A person qualified to practise medicine, especially one who specializes in diagnosis and medical treatment as distinct from surgery.
- note		/nəʊt/
- notice	/ˈnəʊtɪs/