[Listened Key Sentence]
1. During the 1960s and 1970s, the women's movement made considerable progress in elevating public awareness of inequity between the sexes.
2. The national organization for women, NOW, was formed in 1966 by Bady Forden and other like-minded activists to promote women's right through legislation.
3. NOW lobbied for the end of job discrimination.
4. The equal rights of memans was passed by Congress.
5. The organization also sought the legalization of abortion.
6. The women's movement also helped to forge a new sense of identity and shared experiences among women.

[Real Key Sentence]
1. During the 1960s and 1970s, the women's movement made considerable progress in elevating public awareness of inequalities between the sexes. 一九六零至一九七零年代間，女權運動在提升大眾對兩性不平等的認知上，獲得了相當的進展
2. The National Organization for Women (NOW) was formed in 1966 by Betty Friedan and other like-minded activists to promote women's right through legislation. 「美國全國婦女組織」於一九六六年由貝蒂傅瑞丹和其他有志一同的運動家發起，透過立法增進婦女的權利
3. NOW lobbied for the end of job discrimination. 美國全國婦女組織遊說國會議員立法禁止工作歧視
4. The Equal Rights Amendment was passed by Congress. 兩性平權修正案獲得國會通過
5. The organization also sought the legalization of abortion. 該組織也尋求墮胎合法化
6. The women's movement also helped to forge a new sense of identity and shared experiences among women. 女權運動也幫助女性建立嶄新的身份認同感，分享彼此的經驗

[Listened Article]
During the 1960s and 1970s, the women's movement made considerable progress in elevating public awareness of inequities between the sexes. A central player in the movement was the National Organization for Women (NOW) which was formed in 1966 by Betty Friedan and other like-minded activists to promote women's rights through legislation. In the late 1960s, NOW lobbied for the end of job discrimination and for government supported child-care services for professional mothers. In 1972, NOW helped to secure support for Title 9 of the Education Amendments Act, which require colleges to guarantee equal opportunity for women. And Equal Rights Amendment was passed by Congress, but subsequently failed in ratifacation process. The organization also sought legalization of abortion, a goal achieved with the Supreme Court's decision and in the rows over way case of 1973.

In addition of its political achievements, the women's movement also helped to forge a new sense of identity and shared experiences among women. And important part of this process was creation of publications specifically for women, such as Ms., a feminist magazine founded in the 1970 that provide a forum for women's issues. Other publications, such as influential book Our Body Ourselves, helped many women to feel more comfortable about their bodies and encourage them to discuss formally tabu topics such as birth control, lesbianism, and rape. In addition, schools and universities began to offer courses in women's issues. By 1974, nearly 80 institutions offered women's studies programs.

[Real Article]
During the 1960s and 1970s, the women's movement made considerable progress in elevating public awareness of inequalities between the sexes. A central player in the movement was the National Organization for Women (NOW), which was formed in 1966 by Betty Friedan and other like-minded activists to promote women's right through legislation. In the late 1960s NOW lobbied for the end of job discrimination and for government-supported child-care services for professional mothers. In 1972 NOW helped to secure support for Title IX of the Education Amendments Act, which required colleges to guarantee equal opportunities for women, and the Equal Rights Amendment, which was passed by Congress but subsequently failed in the ratification process. The organization also sought the legalization of abortion, a goal achieved with the Supreme Court's decision in the Roe vs. Wade case of 1973.

In addition to its political achievements, the women's movement also helped to forge a new sense of identity and shared experiences among women. An important part of this process was the creation of publications specifically for women, such as Ms., a feminist magazine founded in 1970 that provided a forum for women's issues. Other publications, such as the influential book Our Bodies, Ourselves, helped many women to feel more comfortable about their bodies and encourage them to  discuss formerly taboo topics such as birth control, lesbianism, and rape. In addition, schools and universities began to offer courses in women's issues; by 1974 nearly 80 institutions offered women's studies programs.

[Review]
* lobby
	> 大廳 |A room providing a space out of which one or more other rooms or corridors lead, typically one near the entrance of a public building.| they went into the hotel lobby
	> 遊說團 |A group of people seeking to influence legislators on a particular issue.| members of the anti-abortion lobby
	> 遊說 |An organized attempt by members of the public to influence legislators.| a recent lobby of Parliament by pensioners
	> |Seek to influence (a legislator) on an issue.| they insist on their right to lobby Congress
* amendment /əˈmɛn(d)m(ə)nt/ (n)修正/改善, 修正案
- Title IX of the Education Amendments Act 教育修正案第九條
- ratification 批准 == The action of signing or giving formal consent to a treaty, contract, or agreement, making it officially valid.
- the Roe vs. Wade case of 1973. 羅訴韋德案，是美國聯邦最高法院於1973年對於婦女墮胎權以及隱私權的重要案例，對於婦女墮胎的問題，美國聯邦最高法院承認婦女的墮胎權，受到憲法隱私權的保護。
- feminist (adj)主張男女平等的 (n)男女平等主義者
* /təˈbuː/ taboo (n)禁忌/忌諱 (adj)禁忌的/禁止的 (v)把...列為禁忌/禁止
- studies programs 課程 <--> study program 研究計畫