[Listened Key Sentence]
1. The public was ceased by what was called railroad mania.
2. The new steam machine was mechanically and visually arresting.
3. The railroad evoked wildly shared sense that almost magical enhancement of human power was about to take place.
4. The steam-powered locomotive was the first important innovation in overland transportation.
5. It was the railroad that made fitable to ship goods long distance over land.

[Real Key Sentence]
1. The public was seized by what was called "railroad mania." 大眾陷入一種被稱為「鐵路狂」的狂熱中
2. The new steam machine was mechanically and visually arresting. 嶄新的蒸汽火車頭不論在機械上或視覺上都很引人注意
3. The railroad evoked a widely shared sense that an almost magical enhancement of human power was about to take place. 鐵路喚起了一種廣泛的認同感，認為人類力量就要神奇地增強
4. The steam-powered locomotive was the first important innovation in overland transportation. 蒸氣發動的火車頭是陸上運輸的首度重大創新
5. It was the railroad that made it feasible to ship goods long distance over land. 鐵路是得經由陸路長程運輸貨品成為可能

[Listened Article]
Of all great modern innovations the railroad may will be the one to which historians have allowed the most dramatic and far-reaching influence. No sooner had the first passenger railroad begun operation in England and the United States around 1830, then the public was seized by what was called, even then, "railroad mania." The new steam machine was as great sources of astonishment then as the computer is today, it could pull more way faster than people had thought possible. It was mechanically and visually arresting, and it almost immediately began to change common ideas of time, space, and history. The railroad evoked widely shared sense that an almost magical enhancement of human power was about to take place.

The more historians have learned about the changes caused by the railroad, the less maniac, the more reasonable or at least understandable that initial mania has come to seem. They reminded us that the steam-powered locomotive was the first important innovation in overland transportation since before the time of Julia Cesar, and many economic historians have described the railroad as one of chief pivots on which industrial revolution turned. Before large-scale production could be profitable, farmers and manufacturers had to gain access to large markets. It was the railroad that made it feasible to ship goods long distance over land.

[Real Article]
Of  all the great modern innovations, the railroad may well be the one to which historians have allowed the most dramatic and far-reaching influence. No sooner had the first passenger railroads begun operations in England and the United States, around 1830, than the public was seized by what was called, even them, "railroad mania." The new steam machine was as great a source of astonishment then as the computer is today. It could pull more weight faster than people had thought possible; it was mechanically and visually arresting; and it almost immediately began to change common ideas of time, space, and history. The railroad evoked a widely shared sense that an almost magical enhancement of human power was about to take place. 

The more historians have learned about the changes caused by the railroad, the less maniac, the more reasonable or at least understandable, that initial mania has come to seem. They remind us that the steam-powered locomotive was the first important innovation in overland transportation since before the time of Julius Caesar, and many economic historians have described the railroad as one of the chief pivots on which the industrial revolution turned. Before large-scale production could be profitable, farmers and manufactures had to gain access to larger markets. It was the railroad that made it feasible to ship goods long distance over land.

[Review]
- seize /siːz/ 
- cease /siːs/ 
- take place 發生 == happens, especially in a controlled or organized way
- innovation /ɪnəˈveɪʃ(ə)n/ 改革/創新 == The action or process of innovating.
- feasible /ˈfiːzɪb(ə)l/ 可行的 == Possible to do easily or conveniently.
- no sooner ... than 剛...就... == used to show that one thing happens immediately after another thing
	> No sooner had I started mowing the lawn than it started raining.
	> No sooner had the first passenger railroads begun operations in England and the United States, than the public was seized by what was called "railroad mania."
+ the more ... the more/less
	> The more fruit and vegetables you eat, the less chance you have of getting cancer.
	> The more I thought about Carrie’s suggestion, the more doubtful I became.
	> The more historians have learned about the changes caused by the railroad, the less maniac, the more reasonable or at least understandable, that initial mania has come to seem.
- Julius Caesar 尤利烏斯·凱撒，羅馬共和國末期的軍事統帥、政治家，是羅馬共和國體制轉向羅馬帝國的關鍵人物，歐洲史稱凱撒大帝
- many economic historians have described the railroad as one of the chief pivots on which the industrial revolution turned. 許多經濟歷史學家更把鐵路描述為工業革命的關鍵轉捩點之一